Add HIP Graph API tutorial (#3864)
ROCm-Developer-Tools/HIP: docs/tutorial/graph_api.rst

.. meta::
  :description: HIP graph API tutorial
  :keywords: AMD, ROCm, HIP, graph API, tutorial

*******************************************************************************
HIP Graph API Tutorial
*******************************************************************************

**Time to complete**: 60 minutes | **Difficulty**: Intermediate | **Domain**: Medical Imaging

Introduction
============

> Imagine you are directing a movie. In traditional GPU programming with streams, you are like a director who must call

Reviewer: I like this introduction, maybe @randyh62 will have some suggestions.

Graphs
^^^^^^

HIP graphs model dependencies between operations the way developers naturally think about them — as nodes and edges on
a diagram. Each node in the graph represents an operation, and each edge represents a dependency between two nodes. If
no edge exists between two nodes, they are independent and can execute in any order.

Because dependency information is built into the graph, the HIP runtime automatically inserts the necessary
synchronization points. Launching all operations in a graph requires only a single API call, reducing launch overhead
and dispatch latency to near-zero. This is especially beneficial for workloads with many small kernels, where launch
overhead can dominate overall execution time.

Graphs must be defined once before use, making them ideal for fixed workflows that run repeatedly. While node
parameters can be updated between executions, the graph structure itself cannot change after instantiation. This
structural immutability is the primary trade-off compared to the flexibility of streams.

For more information about HIP graphs, see :ref:`how_to_HIP_graph`.

When to use graphs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> 

Reviewer: Every section need some description.

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1
  :class: decision-matrix

  * - ✅ **Use Graphs When**
    - ❌ **Avoid Graphs When**
  * - Workflow is fixed and repetitive
    - Workflow changes dynamically
  * - Same kernels execute many times
    - One-shot operations
  * - Launch overhead is significant (many small kernels)
    - Kernels are long-running

Transitioning a CT reconstruction pipeline
------------------------------------------

In this tutorial, we will modify an existing GPU-accelerated stream-based image processing pipeline that reconstructs
computer tomography (CT) data (the classic Shepp-Logan phantom [ShLo74]_). The pipeline transforms raw X-ray
projections into clear cross-sectional images used in medical diagnosis.

.. figure:: ../data/tutorial/graph_api/ct_reconstruction_overview.png
  :alt: Diagram showing raw projection data being transformed into a reconstructed CT slice
  :align: center

> The reconstruction pipeline consists of:

Reviewer: You can mention in front of this the data generation. Those will appear on the trace files, developers should know, that data generation also multi streamed, but not part of the graph lunch focus.

`git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ to check out the code repository, `CMake <https://www.cmake.org>`__ 3.21 or later to
build the code, along with a CMake generator that supports the HIP language such as GNU Make or Ninja.

.. note:: Visual Studio generators currently do not support HIP.

To save the output volume, you need a recent version of `libTIFF <https://libtiff.gitlab.io/libtiff/>`__. If CMake
cannot find libTIFF on your system, it automatically downloads and builds it.

To view both the input projections and the output volume produced by this tutorial, install a scientific image viewer
that can display 16-bit and 32-bit grayscale data, such as `Fiji <https://imagej.net/software/fiji/downloads>`__.
Standard image viewers may be unable to correctly display the output.

Optional knowledge
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

While not required, familiarity with Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) operations will help you understand the filtering
steps. Similarly, knowledge of medical imaging or CT reconstruction is helpful for understanding the application
context. If you have worked with signal processing or image filtering before, you will recognize some of the applied

> concepts.

Reviewer: I would mention in a note:

If someone isn’t interested in understanding the reconstruction algorithm, they should focus only on the main files to explore the different stream and graph solutions.

> Step 1: Acquiring the code

Reviewer: Rename the section to: Build the tutorial code

The full code for this tutorial is part of the `ROCm examples repository <https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-examples>`__.
Check out the repository:

  git clone https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-examples.git

Then navigate to ``rocm-examples/HIP-Doc/Tutorials/graph_api/``. The code can be found in the ``src`` subdirectory.

Create a separate ``build`` directory inside ``rocm-examples/HIP-Doc/Tutorials/graph_api/``. Then 
configure the project (adjust ``CMAKE_HIP_ARCHITECTURES`` to match your GPU):

  cd build
  cmake -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/opt/rocm -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_HIP_ARCHITECTURES=gfx1100 -DCMAKE_HIP_PLATFORM=amd -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=amdclang++ -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=amdclang -DCMAKE_HIP_COMPILER=amdclang++ ..

Step 2: Examining the stream-based baseline application
=======================================================

Open ``src/main_streams.hip`` in your editor. We will explore how this application processes data.

Understanding batched processing
--------------------------------

Our application processes multiple projections simultaneously to maximize GPU utilization. Let's see how.

Determining parallel capacity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> At the top of ``main()``, we query the GPU's asynchronous engines to set our stream count:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the beginning of ``main()``, the program queries the GPU for its number of asynchronous engines to determine how many streams it can create, indicating how many data transfer or compute operations can run in parallel.
```

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-async-engine-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-async-engine-end]
  :language: cuda

.. tip::

>   Each asynchronous engine can run operations independently. More engines equal more parallelism.

Reviewer: You can mention that on HIP we have to use a different variabla, than on NVIDIA.

>   Each asynchronous engine can run operations independently. More engines equal more parallelism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Each asynchronous engine can execute operations independently. A higher number of engines allows for greater parallelism.
  * On NVIDIA GPUs, the concurrentKernels parameter should be used instead.
```

Author: I think `concurrentKernels` is the same for NVIDIA and AMD: It is a masked boolean that indicates whether a device can launch concurrent kernels or not, but it doesn't tell us the maximum amount. I believe the only way for CUDA is to look up this number in the programming guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Each asynchronous engine can execute operations independently. A higher number of engines allows for greater parallelism.
```

Reviewer: In this case my comment.

Processing projections in batches
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Find the ``MAIN LOOP`` comment. Here is where we group projections into parallel batches:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-batch-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-batch-end]
  :language: cuda

Notice how each batch size equals our stream count — this ensures every stream stays busy.

Synchronization
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Since each projection processes independently, we only synchronize once at the end:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since each projection is processed independently, synchronization is only needed once at the end. The :cpp:funtion`hipStreamWaitEvent()` call ensures that the first stream pauses execution until all other streams have completed their work.
```

  :start-after: // [sphinx-proj-to-expanded-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-proj-to-expanded-end]
  :language: cuda

Next, we transform the expanded projection into Fourier space for filtering:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-forward-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-forward-end]
  :language: cuda

.. tip::
  Some hipFFT operations are graph-safe: As long as these operations are operating on the capturing stream, they will
  be captured into the graph as well. Refer to :ref:`hipFFT's documentation <hipfft:hipfft-api-usage>` for more
  information on its graph-safe operations.

In Fourier space, we apply the Shepp-Logan filter, then transform back:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-filter-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-filter-end]
  :language: cuda

Shrink to original size and normalize the FFT output:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-expanded-to-proj-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-expanded-to-proj-end]
  :language: cuda

> Finally, backproject the filtered projection into our 3D volume:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, the filtered projection is backprojected into the 3D volume. The backprojection step uses atomicAdd operations to safely accumulate voxel values from multiple kernels:
```

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-bp-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-bp-end]

Creating a trace file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To build the application, execute the following command in your ``build`` directory:

>   cmake --build . --target hip_graph_api_tutorial_streams

Reviewer: I will do the build at the "Acquiring the code"

Reviewer: Please rename the Acquiring the code section

Now we will generate a trace:

  rocprofv3 -o streams -d outDir -f pftrace --hip-trace --kernel-trace --memory-copy-trace --memory-allocation-trace -- ./bin/hip_graph_api_tutorial_graph_creation

Analyzing the trace
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Open the trace file to see what is really happening:

1. Navigate to your ``build/outDir`` directory
2. Open ``streams_results.pftrace`` in `Perfetto <https://ui.perfetto.dev>`__
3. Click the arrow next to your executable name under ``System``
4. Focus on the kernel execution pattern on the right

.. figure:: ../data/tutorial/graph_api/streams_trace.png
  :alt: Stream execution showing gaps between kernel launches
  :align: center

While projections process in parallel, there are visible gaps between operations. These gaps represent overhead caused

> by scheduling and launching the operations. In the next section, we will try to 

Reviewer: unfinished sentence

Step 3: Converting to graphs via stream capture
===============================================

> Now open the file ``src/main_graph_capture.hip``. It contains the code from the previous subsection, with a few

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stream capture is a feature that allows you to record a sequence of GPU operations (kernel launches, memory copies, etc.) into a HIP Graph, which can later be executed as a single, optimized unit. Open the file ``src/main_graph_capture.hip``, which contains the code from the previous subsection, with a few
```

changes that allow us to capture the streams into a single graph.

Before the main loop, we declare graph-specific variables:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_capture.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-graph-vars-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-graph-vars-end]
  :language: cuda

> We will get to the :cpp:type:`hipGraphExec_t` variables later. ``graphStream`` will execute our final graph.

Reviewer: Probably best to describe the variables here, then later:

        auto graphCreated = false;
        auto graphExec = hipGraphExec_t{};
        auto graphFinalCreated = false;
        auto graphExecFinal = hipGraphExec_t{};
        auto graphStream = hipStream_t{};
        hip_check(hipStreamCreate(&graphStream));

Instantiating a graph is a relatively costly operation. However, we need to update the parameters whenever a new batch
is processed. Since the graph templates are the same for all batches (i.e., the topology of the resulting graph does
not change), it is sufficient to update the existing graph instance's parameters instead of creating a new instance:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_capture.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-graph-update-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-graph-update-end]
  :language: cuda

Should the graph's topology change between iterations, it is necessary to create a new graph instance. In our
application's case, this can happen when the number of projections is not evenly divisible by the number of
asynchronous engines:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_capture.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-graph-final-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-graph-final-end]
  :language: cuda

Creating a trace
----------------

Now we have successfully converted our processing pipeline into an executable graph. Let us examine the effects of this
change. First, we build the application:

>   cmake --build . --target hip_graph_api_tutorial_graph_capture

Reviewer: I would mention this at build section.

structural immutability is the primary trade-off compared to the flexibility of streams.

For more information about HIP graphs, see :ref:`how_to_HIP_graph`.

When to use graphs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This table shows when to use graphs in your application.

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1
  :class: decision-matrix

  * - ✅ **Use Graphs When**
    - ❌ **Avoid Graphs When**
  * - Workflow is fixed and repetitive
    - Workflow changes dynamically
  * - Same kernels execute many times
    - One-shot operations
  * - Launch overhead is significant (many small kernels)
    - Kernels are long-running

Transitioning a CT reconstruction pipeline
------------------------------------------

In this tutorial, we will modify an existing GPU-accelerated stream-based image processing pipeline that reconstructs
computer tomography (CT) data (the classic Shepp-Logan phantom [ShLo74]_). The pipeline transforms raw X-ray
projections into clear cross-sectional images used in medical diagnosis.

.. figure:: ../data/tutorial/graph_api/ct_reconstruction_overview.png
  :alt: Diagram showing raw projection data being transformed into a reconstructed CT slice
  :align: center

.. note::

>   The tutorial application generates a phantom volume and forward projections from the volume. This GPU-accelerated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The tutorial application generates a phantom volume and forward projections from the volume. This multi-streamed GPU-accelerated
```

>   operation appears in the traces. You can ignore the dataset generation — it is not important for this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  operation appears in the traces. You can ignore the dataset generation — it is not relevant to the focus of this tutorial
```

you will reduce the amount of API calls required for launching the workflow on a GPU to 1 per projection, thus reducing
launch overhead and dispatch latency to near-zero.

What you will learn
-------------------

After completing this tutorial, you will be able to:

* Convert a stream-based HIP application to use graphs via stream capturing
* Create graphs manually for fine-grained control
* Integrate graph-safe libraries like hipFFT into your graphs
* Understand when graphs provide performance benefits
* Apply graph concepts to your own workflows

Before you begin
----------------

Required knowledge
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You should be comfortable writing and debugging HIP kernels, understand basic GPU memory management concepts like
device allocation and host-to-device transfers, be familiar with HIP streams and events, and have experience using
CMake to build C++ projects. This tutorial assumes you have written at least a few HIP programs before and understand
concepts like grid dimensions and thread blocks.

Hardware and software requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Your system needs ROCm 6.2 or later with the hipFFT library installed. The tutorial works on

Reviewer: Are we sure ROCm 6.2 is enough. HIP Graph became non-beta with ROCm 7.0.

Author: I can raise it to 7.0 but it does compile & work with ROCm 6.2.

Reviewer: Let's keep 6.2.

`git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ to check out the code repository, `CMake <https://www.cmake.org>`__ 3.21 or later to
build the code, along with a CMake generator that supports the HIP language such as GNU Make or Ninja.

.. note:: Visual Studio generators currently do not support HIP.

To save the output volume, you need a recent version of `libTIFF <https://libtiff.gitlab.io/libtiff/>`__. If CMake
cannot find libTIFF on your system, it automatically downloads and builds it.

To view both the input projections and the output volume produced by this tutorial, install a scientific image viewer
that can display 16-bit and 32-bit grayscale data, such as `Fiji <https://imagej.net/software/fiji/downloads>`__.
Standard image viewers may be unable to correctly display the output.

Optional knowledge
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

While not required, familiarity with Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) operations will help you understand the filtering
steps. Similarly, knowledge of medical imaging or CT reconstruction is helpful for understanding the application
context. If you have worked with signal processing or image filtering before, you will recognize some of the applied
concepts.

.. note::

>   You can skip the reconstruction algorithm and focus on the stream and graph solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can skip the reconstruction algorithm and concentrate on the stream and graph implementations instead in the main files.
```

Step 1: Build the tutorial code
==========================

The full code for this tutorial is part of the `ROCm examples repository <https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-examples>`__.
Check out the repository:

  git clone https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-examples.git

Then navigate to ``rocm-examples/HIP-Doc/Tutorials/graph_api/``. The code can be found in the ``src`` subdirectory.

Create a separate ``build`` directory inside ``rocm-examples/HIP-Doc/Tutorials/graph_api/``. Then 
configure the project (adjust ``CMAKE_HIP_ARCHITECTURES`` to match your GPU):

  cd build
  cmake -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/opt/rocm -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_HIP_ARCHITECTURES=gfx1100 -DCMAKE_HIP_PLATFORM=amd -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=amdclang++ -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=amdclang -DCMAKE_HIP_COMPILER=amdclang++ ..

Now you can build the three variants of the tutorial code:

  cmake --build . --target hip_graph_api_tutorial_streams hip_graph_api_tutorial_graph_capture hip_graph_api_tutorial_graph_creation

> At the beginning of ``main()``, the program queries the GPU for its number of asynchronous engines to determine how many streams it can create, indicating how many data transfer or compute operations can run in parallel.

Reviewer: Did we accidentally remove the section title?

  :start-after: // [sphinx-forward-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-forward-end]
  :language: cuda

.. tip::
  Some hipFFT operations are graph-safe: As long as these operations are operating on the capturing stream, they will
  be captured into the graph as well. Refer to :ref:`hipFFT's documentation <hipfft:hipfft-api-usage>` for more
  information on its graph-safe operations.

In Fourier space, we apply the Shepp-Logan filter, then transform back:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-filter-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-filter-end]
  :language: cuda

Shrink to original size and normalize the FFT output:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-expanded-to-proj-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-expanded-to-proj-end]
  :language: cuda

Finally, backproject the filtered projection into the 3D volume using ``atomicAdd`` operations to accumulate voxel
values from multiple kernels:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-bp-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-bp-end]

> 

Reviewer: Please add a note that most of the preprocessing kernels are short kernels compared to backprojection. You can also mention that the kernel complexity compared to the others.

Creating a trace file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Inside the ``build`` directory we will now generate a trace:

>   rocprofv3 -o streams -d outDir -f pftrace --hip-trace --kernel-trace --memory-copy-trace --memory-allocation-trace -- ./bin/hip_graph_api_tutorial_graph_creation

Reviewer: Should we mention what the options do or link the rocrpof documentation for further information.

cannot find libTIFF on your system, it automatically downloads and builds it.

To view both the input projections and the output volume produced by this tutorial, install a scientific image viewer
that can display 16-bit and 32-bit grayscale data, such as `Fiji <https://imagej.net/software/fiji/downloads>`__.
Standard image viewers may be unable to correctly display the output.

Optional knowledge
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

While not required, familiarity with Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) operations will help you understand the filtering
steps. Similarly, knowledge of medical imaging or CT reconstruction is helpful for understanding the application
context. If you have worked with signal processing or image filtering before, you will recognize some of the applied
concepts.

.. note::
  You can skip the reconstruction algorithm and concentrate on the stream and graph implementations in the files
  prefixed with ``main_``.

Step 1: Build the tutorial code
==========================

The full code for this tutorial is part of the `ROCm examples repository <https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-examples>`__.
Check out the repository:

>   git clone https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-examples.git

Reviewer: We forgot out the .. code-block:: bash

Then navigate to ``rocm-examples/HIP-Doc/Tutorials/graph_api/``. The code can be found in the ``src`` subdirectory.

Create a separate ``build`` directory inside ``rocm-examples/HIP-Doc/Tutorials/graph_api/``. Then 
configure the project (adjust ``CMAKE_HIP_ARCHITECTURES`` to match your GPU):

>   cd build

Reviewer: We forgot the .. code-block:: cpp

cannot find libTIFF on your system, it automatically downloads and builds it.

To view both the input projections and the output volume produced by this tutorial, install a scientific image viewer
that can display 16-bit and 32-bit grayscale data, such as `Fiji <https://imagej.net/software/fiji/downloads>`__.
Standard image viewers may be unable to correctly display the output.

Optional knowledge
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

While not required, familiarity with Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) operations will help you understand the filtering
steps. Similarly, knowledge of medical imaging or CT reconstruction is helpful for understanding the application
context. If you have worked with signal processing or image filtering before, you will recognize some of the applied
concepts.

.. note::
  You can skip the reconstruction algorithm and concentrate on the stream and graph implementations in the files
  prefixed with ``main_``.

Step 1: Build the tutorial code
==========================

The full code for this tutorial is part of the `ROCm examples repository <https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-examples>`__.
Check out the repository:

.. code-block:: bash

>   git clone https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-examples.git

Reviewer: ```suggestion

  git clone https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-examples.git
```

*******************************************************************************

**Time to complete**: 60 minutes | **Difficulty**: Intermediate | **Domain**: Medical Imaging

Introduction
============

Imagine you are directing a movie. In traditional GPU programming with streams, you are like a director who must call
"action!" for every single shot, waiting between each take. With HIP graphs, you pre-plan the entire scene sequence and
then call "action!" just once to film everything in one go. This tutorial will show you how to transform your GPU
applications from repeated direction to choreographed performance.

Modeling dependencies between GPU operations
--------------------------------------------

Most movies in the world follow a plot where certain scenes must happen before the following scenes; otherwise the
movie might not make much sense. If a scene *A* must happen before scenes *B* and *C*, *B* and *C* depend on *A*. If
*B* and *C* contain different stories that (at this point) are unrelated to each other, *B* and *C* are independent and
can be shown to the audience in any order. However, both scenes might be a prerequisite for the final scene *D*, so *D*

> depends on both of them. When we represent scenes as *nodes* and dependencies as *edges*, we can create a graph, and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
depends on both of them. When you represent scenes as *nodes* and dependencies as *edges*, you can create a graph, and
```

Reviewer 2: Generally, you should use you instead of we.

the graph representing our imaginary movie script will have a diamond-like shape:

.. figure:: ../data/tutorial/graph_api/diamond.svg
  :alt: Diagram showing a graph with diamond-like shape. Nodes represent movie scenes and edges represent dependencies
        between scenes.
  :align: center

> We can think about GPU operations in a similar way. Most kernels require at least one data buffer to work with, so they

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can think about GPU operations in a similar way. For example, most kernels require at least one data buffer to work with, so they
```

will depend on a preceding copy or ``memset`` operation. Others might process the results of preceding kernels.
Real-world applications typically involve multiple GPU operations with dependencies between them. HIP offers two ways
to think about and model these dependencies: streams and graphs.

Streams
^^^^^^^

Streams are HIP's default model for organizing and launching GPU operations on the device. They are sequential sets of

> operations, similar to CPU threads. Adding operation A before operation B to a stream ensures A happens before B,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
operations, similar to CPU threads. Adding operation *A* before operation *B* to a stream ensures *A* happens before *B*,
```

regardless of any interdependencies (or lack thereof) between them. A stream can be thought of as a first-in, first-out
(FIFO) queue of operations.

Multiple streams operate independently, and manual synchronization is required when dependencies cross stream
boundaries. Additionally, each operation in a stream is scheduled independently, which — depending on the complexity of
the enqueued operation — might lead to noticeable CPU launch overhead and kernel dispatch latency, especially for
workloads with many small kernels. However, applications that use streams are well suited for workloads that are
dynamic and unpredictable.

For more information about HIP streams, see :ref:`asynchronous_how-to`.

Graphs
^^^^^^

> HIP graphs model dependencies between operations the way developers naturally think about them — as nodes and edges on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
HIP graphs model dependencies between operations as nodes and edges on
```

synchronization points. Launching all operations in a graph requires only a single API call, reducing launch overhead
and dispatch latency to near-zero. This is especially beneficial for workloads with many small kernels, where launch
overhead can dominate overall execution time.

Graphs must be defined once before use, making them ideal for fixed workflows that run repeatedly. While node
parameters can be updated between executions, the graph structure itself cannot change after instantiation. This
structural immutability is the primary trade-off compared to the flexibility of streams.

For more information about HIP graphs, see :ref:`how_to_HIP_graph`.

When to use graphs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This table shows when to use graphs in your application.

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1
  :class: decision-matrix

  * - ✅ **Use Graphs When**
    - ❌ **Avoid Graphs When**
  * - Workflow is fixed and repetitive
    - Workflow changes dynamically
  * - Same kernels execute many times
    - One-shot operations
  * - Launch overhead is significant (many small kernels)
    - Kernels are long-running

Transitioning a CT reconstruction pipeline
------------------------------------------

> In this tutorial, we will modify an existing GPU-accelerated stream-based image processing pipeline that reconstructs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will modify an existing GPU-accelerated stream-based image processing pipeline that reconstructs
```

.. note::
  The tutorial application generates a phantom volume and forward projections. This GPU-accelerated operation uses
  multiple streams and appears in the traces. You can ignore the dataset generation — it is not relevant to this
  tutorial.

The reconstruction pipeline consists of:

1. **Load** projection data into GPU memory
2. **Preprocess** the projection through six stages:
  a. Logarithmic transformation (convert X-ray intensities)
  b. Pixel weighting (correct for cone-beam geometry)
  c. Forward FFT (transform to frequency domain)
  d. Shepp-Logan filtering (enhance edges and improve contrast)
  e. Inverse FFT (return to spatial domain)
  f. Normalization (account for unnormalized FFT)
3. **Reconstruct** the 3D volume using the Feldkamp-Davis-Kress (FDK) algorithm [FeDK84]_

**Why HIP graphs?** CT scanners process hundreds of projections per scan. By capturing this fixed workflow as a graph,
you will reduce the amount of API calls required for launching the workflow on a GPU to 1 per projection, thus reducing
launch overhead and dispatch latency to near-zero.

What you will learn
-------------------

After completing this tutorial, you will be able to:

> * Convert a stream-based HIP application to use graphs via stream capturing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Convert a stream-based HIP application to a graph-based application via stream capturing
```

* Create graphs manually for fine-grained control
* Integrate graph-safe libraries like hipFFT into your graphs
* Understand when graphs provide performance benefits
* Apply graph concepts to your own workflows

Before you begin
----------------

Required knowledge
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You should be comfortable writing and debugging HIP kernels, understand basic GPU memory management concepts like
device allocation and host-to-device transfers, be familiar with HIP streams and events, and have experience using
CMake to build C++ projects. This tutorial assumes you have written at least a few HIP programs before and understand
concepts like grid dimensions and thread blocks.

Hardware and software requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Your system needs ROCm 6.2 or later with the hipFFT library installed. The tutorial works on

> all :doc:`supported AMD GPUs <rocm-install-on-linux:reference/system-requirements>`, though at least 4 GiB of GPU

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
all :doc:`supported AMD GPUs <rocm-install-on-linux:reference/system-requirements>`, though at least 4 GB of GPU
```

Author: That's intentional, see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byte#Multiple-byte_units

  prefixed with ``main_``.

Step 1: Build the tutorial code
==========================

The full code for this tutorial is part of the `ROCm examples repository <https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-examples>`__.
Check out the repository:

.. code-block:: bash

  git clone https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-examples.git

Then navigate to ``rocm-examples/HIP-Doc/Tutorials/graph_api/``. The code can be found in the ``src`` subdirectory.

Create a separate ``build`` directory inside ``rocm-examples/HIP-Doc/Tutorials/graph_api/``. Then 
configure the project (adjust ``CMAKE_HIP_ARCHITECTURES`` to match your GPU):

.. code-block:: bash

  cd build
  cmake -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/opt/rocm -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_HIP_ARCHITECTURES=gfx1100 -DCMAKE_HIP_PLATFORM=amd -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=amdclang++ -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=amdclang -DCMAKE_HIP_COMPILER=amdclang++ ..

Now you can build the three variants of the tutorial code:

.. code-block:: bash

  cmake --build . --target hip_graph_api_tutorial_streams hip_graph_api_tutorial_graph_capture hip_graph_api_tutorial_graph_creation

Step 2: Examining the stream-based baseline application
=======================================================

> Open ``src/main_streams.hip`` in your editor. We will explore how this application processes data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open ``src/main_streams.hip`` in your editor. You will explore how this application processes data.
```

Understanding batched processing
--------------------------------

> Our application processes multiple projections simultaneously to maximize GPU utilization. Let's see how.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The application processes multiple projections simultaneously to maximize GPU utilization. 
```

Determining parallel capacity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

At the beginning of ``main()``, the program queries the GPU for its number of asynchronous engines to determine how
many streams it can create, indicating how many data transfer or compute operations can run in parallel.

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-async-engine-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-async-engine-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

.. tip::
  Each asynchronous engine executes operations independently. More engines mean more parallelism.

Processing projections in batches
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Find the ``MAIN LOOP`` comment. Here is where we group projections into parallel batches:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Find the ``MAIN LOOP`` comment. Here the application groups projections into parallel batches:
```

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-batch-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-batch-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

> Notice how each batch size equals our stream count — this ensures every stream stays busy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice how each batch size equals the stream count — this ensures every stream stays busy.
```

Synchronization
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Each projection processes independently, so you only need to synchronize once at the end.
:cpp:func:`hipStreamWaitEvent()` function makes the first stream wait for all other streams to complete.

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-sync-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-sync-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

Exploring the processing pipeline
---------------------------------

> Now let us examine what happens to each projection. Find the ``START HERE`` comment to see the reconstruction pipeline's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, examine what happens to each projection. Find the ``START HERE`` comment to see the reconstruction pipeline's
```

first steps:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-preprocessing-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-preprocessing-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

This is a typical pattern found across many HIP applications: multiple kernels executing in sequence with data
dependencies. In the next step, the weighted projections need to be transformed into Fourier space and filtered. For

> optimal performance, it is recommended to execute a 1D FFT on a buffer size which is a power of two. We therefore copy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
optimal performance, it is recommended to execute a 1D FFT on a buffer size which is a power of two. Copy
```

the weighted projection to another buffer where the row length is a power of two equal to or larger than the
projection's row length:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-proj-to-expanded-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-proj-to-expanded-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

> Next, we transform the expanded projection into Fourier space for filtering:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, transform the expanded projection into Fourier space for filtering:
```

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-forward-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-forward-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

.. tip::
  Some hipFFT operations are graph-safe: As long as these operations are operating on the capturing stream, they will
  be captured into the graph as well. Refer to :ref:`hipFFT's documentation <hipfft:hipfft-api-usage>` for more
  information on its graph-safe operations.

> In Fourier space, we apply the Shepp-Logan filter, then transform back:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Fourier space, you apply the Shepp-Logan filter, then transform back:
```

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-filter-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-filter-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

Shrink to original size and normalize the FFT output:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-expanded-to-proj-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-expanded-to-proj-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

> Finally, backproject the filtered projection into the 3D volume using ``atomicAdd`` operations to accumulate voxel

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, back-project the filtered projection into the 3D volume using ``atomicAdd`` operations to accumulate voxel
```

Reviewer 2: This part was confusing to me. I saw backprojection-filtration (BPF) and filtered back-projection (FBP) in my searching. Are they the same thing or different and which are you using?

Author: I'm not familiar with the backprojection-filtration (BPF) term, but I assume it is identical to filtered back-projection (FBP). At least the latter is more common.

FBP is a term for the overall process: You take a filtered projection and then back-project it into the volume. You could also perform an unfiltered back-projection, i.e. skip the filtering step, but then your output volume will be blurry. This is because the back-projection is not an exact inverse of the forward projection.

values from multiple kernels:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_streams.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-bp-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-bp-end]
  :dedent:

.. note::

>   The preprocessing kernels process 512 × 512 pixels (:math:`\mathcal{O}(n²)`), while the backprojection kernel

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The preprocessing kernels process 512 × 512 pixels (:math:`\mathcal{O}(n²)`), while the back-projection kernel
```

>   processes 512 × 512 × 512 voxels (:math:`\mathcal{O}(n³)`). This cubic complexity makes backprojection the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  processes 512 × 512 × 512 voxels (:math:`\mathcal{O}(n³)`). This cubic complexity makes back-projection the
```

  computational bottleneck.

Creating a trace file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Inside the ``build`` directory we will now generate a trace:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inside the ``build`` directory you will now generate a trace:
```

.. code-block:: bash

  rocprofv3 -o streams -d outDir -f pftrace --hip-trace --kernel-trace --memory-copy-trace --memory-allocation-trace -- ./bin/hip_graph_api_tutorial_graph_creation

.. note::
  For more information on the ``rocprofv3`` tool, please refer to its
  :ref:`documentation <rocprofiler-sdk:using-rocprov3>`.

Analyzing the trace
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Open the trace file to see what is really happening:

1. Navigate to your ``build/outDir`` directory
2. Open ``streams_results.pftrace`` in `Perfetto <https://ui.perfetto.dev>`__
3. Click the arrow next to your executable name under ``System``
4. Focus on the kernel execution pattern on the right

.. figure:: ../data/tutorial/graph_api/streams_trace.png
  :alt: Stream execution showing gaps between kernel launches
  :align: center

While projections process in parallel, there are visible gaps between operations. These gaps represent overhead caused

> by scheduling and launching the operations. In the next section, we will eliminate these gaps by capturing streams into

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
by scheduling and launching the operations. In the next section, you will eliminate these gaps by capturing streams into
```

a graph.

Step 3: Converting to graphs via stream capture
===============================================

Stream capture is a feature that allows you to record a sequence of GPU operations (kernel launches, memory copies,
etc.) into a HIP Graph, which can later be executed as a single, optimized unit. Open the file

> ``src/main_graph_capture.hip``, which contains the code from the previous subsection, with a few changes that allow us

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``src/main_graph_capture.hip``, which contains the code from the previous subsection, with a few changes that allow you
```

to capture the streams into a single graph.

> Before the main loop, we declare graph-specific variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before the main loop, you declare graph-specific variables:
```

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_capture.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-graph-vars-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-graph-vars-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

> ``graphExec`` and ``graphExecFinal`` will be instances of the graph template that we will create in the following

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``graphExec`` and ``graphExecFinal`` will be instances of the graph template that you will create in the following
```

steps. You will typically instantiate a graph template once and update its parameters for repeated launches. If the
graph topology changes, you will need a new instance. The ``graphStream`` will launch the final graph instances.

Inside the main loop, activate capture mode on the first stream:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_capture.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-begin-capture-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-begin-capture-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

.. admonition:: What happens during capture?
  When :cpp:func:`hipStreamBeginCapture` is called, the stream stops executing operations immediately. Instead, it
  records operations into a graph template (``graph`` in the code shown here).

> To capture multiple streams, we use events to implement the fork-join pattern:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To capture multiple streams, use events to implement the fork-join pattern:
```

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_capture.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-fork-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-fork-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

This creates dependencies between streams, activating capture mode on the additional streams and ensuring they are all
part of the same graph.

**The processing pipeline itself remains unchanged.**

> After recording all operations of the current batch, we join the streams:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After recording all operations of the current batch, join the streams:
```

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_capture.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-join-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-join-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

Then stop capturing:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_capture.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-stop-capture-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-stop-capture-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

> Our graph template is now complete. In order to execute the recorded operations, we need to instantiate the graph

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The graph template is now complete. In order to execute the recorded operations, you need to instantiate the graph
```

and execute it on the ``graphStream``. The graph template can be safely destroyed after instantiating:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_capture.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-graph-instantiate-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-graph-instantiate-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

.. tip::
  Use :cpp:func:`hipGraphDebugDotPrint` to save a graph's topology into a ``*.dot`` file. The resulting file
  contains a `DOT <https://graphviz.org/doc/info/lang.html>`__ description which can be processed with
  `Graphviz <https://graphviz.org/>`__ or visualized with several tools. For example:

  .. code-block:: bash

    dot -Tpng graph_capture.dot -o graph_capture.png

> Instantiating a graph is a relatively costly operation. However, we need to update the parameters whenever a new batch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instantiating a graph is a relatively costly operation. However, you need to update the parameters whenever a new batch
```

is processed. Since the graph templates are the same for all batches (i.e., the topology of the resulting graph does
not change), it is sufficient to update the existing graph instance's parameters instead of creating a new instance:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_capture.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-graph-update-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-graph-update-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

> Should the graph's topology change between iterations, it is necessary to create a new graph instance. In our

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Should the graph's topology change between iterations, it is necessary to create a new graph instance. In your
```

application's case, this can happen when the number of projections is not evenly divisible by the number of
asynchronous engines:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_capture.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-graph-final-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-graph-final-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

Creating a trace
----------------

> Now we have successfully converted our processing pipeline into an executable graph. Let us examine the effects of this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you have successfully converted the processing pipeline into an executable graph. You can examine the effects of this
```

change and generate another trace:

.. code-block:: bash

  rocprofv3 -o graph_capture -d outDir -f pftrace --hip-trace --kernel-trace --memory-copy-trace --memory-allocation-trace -- ./bin/hip_graph_api_tutorial_graph_capture

Analyzing the trace
-------------------

Opening the resulting trace file ``outDir/graph_capture_results.pftrace`` with Perfetto shows a significant change:

.. figure:: ../data/tutorial/graph_api/capture_trace.png
  :alt: Diagram showing a trace of the capturing variant.
  :align: center

The gaps have disappeared! By capturing all operations of a batch into a single graph, we successfully eliminated the

> launching and scheduling overhead we previously observed in the stream-based variant.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The gaps have disappeared! By capturing all operations of a batch into a single graph, you have successfully eliminated the
launching and scheduling overhead previously observed in the stream-based variant.
```

A limitation of stream capture is that it preserves stream ordering even when unnecessary. Operations that could run in
parallel still execute sequentially. Another approach to graphs is manual construction. This is quite verbose but also
offers much more control over dependencies and parallelism.

Step 4: Manual graph creation (advanced)
========================================

Open ``src/main_graph_creation.hip`` and find the main loop. The code here differs from the other variants: rather than
capturing streams into graphs, we build the graph manually. Consider how we invoke the weighting kernel through a

> kernel node:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open ``src/main_graph_creation.hip`` and find the main loop. The code here differs from the other variants: rather than
capturing streams into graphs, you will build the graph manually. Consider how the weighting kernel is invoked through a
kernel node:
```

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_creation.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-weighting-node-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-weighting-node-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

We create an array of ``void*`` pointers containing the kernel parameters. Next, we configure the kernel launch
parameters: grid and block dimensions, the kernel function pointer, and the dynamic shared memory size. Finally, we add
the kernel node to the graph template. Note the ``&logTransformationKernelNode, 1`` part: this is how we specify a

> dependency from the preceding log transformation kernel node to the weighting kernel node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You create an array of ``void*`` pointers containing the kernel parameters. Next, configure the kernel launch
parameters: grid and block dimensions, the kernel function pointer, and the dynamic shared memory size. Finally, add
the kernel node to the graph template. Note the ``&logTransformationKernelNode, 1`` part: this is how you specify a
dependency from the preceding log transformation kernel node to the weighting kernel node.
```

.. note::

>   For specifying multiple dependencies, one would pass an array of :cpp:type:`hipGraphNode_t` objects and the number of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  For specifying multiple dependencies, you would pass an array of :cpp:type:`hipGraphNode_t` objects and the number of
```

  nodes inside the array to :cpp:func:`hipGraphAddKernelNode`.

The HIP graph API supports multiple different node types. For example, this is how a ``memset`` node is set up:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_creation.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-memset-node-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-memset-node-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

.. note::
  Despite the different construction method, graph instantiation and updates
  work exactly as before. You can find the same patterns at the loop's end.

Adding hipFFT nodes
-------------------

> While hipFFT provides graph-safe functionality, it doesn't support manual node creation. Integrating hipFFT into our

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While hipFFT provides graph-safe functionality, it doesn't support manual node creation. Integrating hipFFT into the
```

graph requires a workaround using stream capture with additional bookkeeping.

> We capture the graph state before and after hipFFT operations, then identify the nodes hipFFT added:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You capture the graph state before and after hipFFT operations, then identify the nodes hipFFT added:
```

Step 1: Save existing nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Record all current graph nodes in a sorted ``std::set``:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_creation.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-before-forward-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-before-forward-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

Step 2: Capture hipFFT operations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_creation.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-hipfft-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-hipfft-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

Step 3: Get updated node list
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_creation.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-after-forward-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-after-forward-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

Step 4: Find new nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> We compute the difference between both node sets:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Compute the difference between both node sets:
```

  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

Step 5: Identify the leaf node
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Find hipFFT's final node for dependency tracking:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_creation.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-find-leaf-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-find-leaf-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

The leaf detection logic checks if a node has no outgoing edges:

.. literalinclude:: ../tools/example_codes/graph_api_tutorial_main_graph_creation.hip
  :start-after: // [sphinx-is-leaf-start]
  :end-before: // [sphinx-is-leaf-end]
  :language: cuda
  :dedent:

With hipFFT integrated and its leaf node identified, subsequent nodes can establish proper dependencies.

.. note::
  You can also capture hipFFT operations into a separate graph template, then add it to the main graph as a child graph
  using :cpp:func:`hipGraphAddChildGraphNode`. The approach above adds hipFFT nodes directly to the main graph as
  first-class nodes. A child graph acts as a single node that expands recursively into its components. The scheduler
  may handle these approaches differently, potentially affecting performance.

Creating a trace
----------------

> Now we have manually implemented our processing pipeline with the graph API. Let us examine the result by generating

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you have manually implemented the processing pipeline with the graph API. You can examine the result by generating
```

another trace:

.. code-block:: bash
  
  rocprofv3 -o graph_creation -d outDir -f pftrace --hip-trace --kernel-trace --memory-copy-trace --memory-allocation-trace -- ./bin/hip_graph_api_tutorial_graph_creation

Analyzing the trace
-------------------

Opening the resulting trace file ``outDir/graph_creation_results.pftrace`` with Perfetto shows a similar trace to what

> we achieved with the capture variant:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Opening the resulting trace file ``outDir/graph_creation_results.pftrace`` with Perfetto shows a similar trace to what
you achieved with the capture variant:
```

.. figure:: ../data/tutorial/graph_api/creation_trace.png
  :alt: Diagram showing a trace of the creation variant.
  :align: center

Like before, the kernels are executed *en bloc*. By creating nodes for all operations in the processing pipeline, we

> avoided the launching and scheduling overhead we previously observed in the stream-based variant.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like before, the kernels are executed *en bloc*. By creating nodes for all operations in the processing pipeline, you
avoided the launching and scheduling overhead you previously observed in the stream-based variant.
```
